Fig. 1. Starting point showing the top-level concept and its children

A. Ontology Browsing

The starting point is the root concept of an ontology (or
an ontology scheme in the case of an SKOS°-based ontology
such as the ALMA ontology). As shown in figure 1, the top-
most concept Node is at the center. The ontology (or ontology
scheme) can be selected in the top-left dropdown menu. The
small circles around this concept represent its direct children.
Note that the background color of the parent concept is darker
than the one of its children. This is a color-based visual cue
used throughout the tool. When hovering over a child concept,
its name is shown. The eyes icon is a visual cue to indicate
that this concept itself also has children, including learning
resources related to at least one of the concepts.

Once a concept has been selected, a situation similar to the
one in figure 2 is reached. Again, the deeper the level of a
concept, the lighter its background color. Parent concepts are
also displayed as a smaller screen object, similar to the top of
a skyscraper appearing thinner from the ground perspective.
Clicking on an upper concept allows to put this concept back
into focus. In this case, the Statement concept is selected.
The grey circles represent child concepts which do not have
further children and have not been annotated on a resource.
In opposition to this is the fire icon, which indicates that
a concept has been heavily used in annotations throughout
the document collection. Both visual cues help teachers in
determining the coverage of ontology concepts in the learning
material corpus. We have chosen this type of cue for showing
that a concept is more or less used in annotations, and not
a size-based one, as the size semantic is already used when
showing the hierarchy. Also students can benefit from this
feature, as a more frequently annotated concept might be an
indicator for its importance. Finally, the PDF icon on the
Statement concept indicates that there is a PDF document
annotated with this concept. When hovering over the icon, a
preview image of the resource is shown; clicking on the icon
leads to a view as shown in figure 5.

>https://www.w3.org/2004/02/skos/

Fig. 2. Selected concept with its parent, children and documents

 

 

 

Fig. 3. Navigation wheel with shortcuts

Through a long press (i.e., clicking and holding) on a
concept, a navigation wheel is shown, as seen in figure
3. Although it is possible to traverse the hierarchy up by
clicking on parent concepts, the number of parent concepts
shown is limited. This is particularly necessary for very deep
hierarchies, as the chain of parent concepts would fill up
the entire screen while top-level concepts would be unrec-
ognizably small. Therefore, the navigation wheel, with the
currently selected concept at the center, proposes shortcuts to
higher-level concepts. Apart from these, it is also possible to
explore concepts related to the currently selected one. In the
example, the concept If Condition from the C scheme of
the ALMA ontology is related to the If concept from the
Programming scheme. A view similar to the one shown in
figure 2 about this concept is shown when clicking on the
red part of the wheel. Finally, it is also possible to see the
resources annotated with the currently selected concept when
clicking on the orange part of the wheel. A view similar to
figure 4 is then shown. As long as a shortcut is only hovered
over and not clicked, the selection will not change. However,
once a click occurs, the selection changes and the view adapts.