eae ¢) runtime-EclipseApplication - Control FI low/main.c - Eclipse
im Br &- im Oe & iv Biv [fe Ge HOE SSH MHF @ Fr FlreOGGre-

ER
1 &
a {al

= Bmainc
& 1 #include<stdio.h>
. 3eint maind {
forCint i = 0; i < 100; i++) {
ifGi % 2 = 0) {
printfC"%d\n", i);

y
}

 

10
11 return Q;
12 |}

“x% APS we Oem-co
(Users/Christian/Dropbox/runtime-EclipseApplication/C<

 

Fig. 7. Integration of our tool in Eclipse

In [16], learning resources are suggested to computer sci-
ence students within the Eclipse IDE. When selecting a piece
of code a learner has understanding issues with, the respective
elements from the abstract syntax tree are retrieved. Those
elements are mapped to concepts in the ALMA ontology,
and related learning material annotated with these concepts
is proposed. This way, students can consult a set of resources
directly from within the IDE. Using the visualization of our
tool, as shown in figure 7, related concepts as well as implicitly
related resources can be discovered. Through this process,
students do not need to know the name of a concept a
priori, but can rely on the mapping to the ontology and the
visualization of concepts and documents.

Integrating related learning material is also the focus of the
work presented in [17], where authors of Office documents
are enabled to have the main topics in the text recognized
and linked to corresponding ontology concepts through entity
linking tools. Users can then retrieve resources annotated with
the recognized concepts, including knowledge base articles for
biochemistry-related ontologies. Combining this Office plugin
with our visualization, users could easily grasp the context of
a document and the related topics.

Finally, mobile serious games such as provided within
the Yactul platform [18] can benefit from the integration of
learning material. When a learner has issues with a quiz
activity, providing related resources can help to clarify her
doubts. As those activities on Yactul are also annotated with
ontology concepts, and in combination with our tool, the
previously mentioned advantages can also be brought to the
serious game.

Using these different integration strategies, the query for
relevant documents becomes entirely visual. Learners are
not required to have any prior knowledge on a concept to
retrieve those resources, can grasp implicit links between
documents in the collection and understand cross-curricular
relations between concepts. Throughout this purely visual
exploration process, neither file names nor locations have to
be remembered.

V. CONCLUSIONS & FUTURE WORK

In this paper, we have presented an ontology coverage
tool and document browser for learning material exploration.
Users can browse through a vast corpus of semantically
enhanced learning material and are enabled to pinpoint doc-
uments relevant to their study process through a visual query
formulation support. Implicit and cross-curricular relations
between concepts and resources can be easily grasped. A
variety of visual cues including icons, coloring schemes and
interactions also help teachers to evaluate the coverage of
concepts within the document collection. Furthermore, the
integration of this Web-based visualization into different e-
learning applications overcomes the limitations of traditional
file explorers, improves the workflow of learners and avoids
Meno’s paradox of inquiry.

There are several directions for future work. First, the
visualization could not only benefit from learning resources
explicitly indexed on a repository, but it could also suggest
related knowledge base articles, which is particularly inter-
esting when using life science ontologies. Furthermore, our
tool currently relies only on already indexed resources, but a
next step could allow teachers to drag and drop documents
onto the interface. A semi-automatic annotation process based
on concept recognition and entity linking tools would then
index this new material, which would then appear in the
visualization, as well. Finally, popular query patterns could be
logged on a per-user basis, so that teachers can understand
their students’ search behavior, whereas students could be
given a personalized list of implicit bookmarks.

REFERENCES

[1] K. A. Olsen, R. R. Korfhage, K. M. Sochats, M. B. Spring, and J. G.
Williams, “Visualization of a Document Collection with Implicit and
Explicit Links: the ViBe System,” Scandinavian Journal of Information
Systems, vol. 5, pp. 79-95, 1993.

[2] H. L. Kim, H. G. Kim, and K.-M. Park, “Ontalk: Ontology-based
personal document management system,” in Proceedings of the 13th
International World Wide Web Conference on Alternate Track Papers &
Posters, ser. WWW Alt. ’04. ACM, 2004, pp. 420-421.

[3] P. Andrews, I. Zaihrayeu, and J. Pane, “A Classification of Semantic
Annotation Systems,’ Semantic Web, vol. 3, no. 3, pp. 223-248, 2012.

[4] S. Lohmann, S. Negru, F. Haag, and T. Ertl, “Vowl 2: User-oriented
visualization of ontologies,” in Knowledge Engineering and Knowledge
Management, K. Janowicz, S. Schlobach, P. Lambrix, and E. Hyvénen,
Eds. Cham: Springer International Publishing, 2014, pp. 266-281.

[5] ——, “Visualizing ontologies with VOWL,” Semantic Web, vol. 7, pp.
399-419, 2016.

[6] A. Psyllidis, “OSMoSys: A Web Interface for Graph-Based RDF Data
Visualization and Ontology Browsing,” in Engineering the Web in the
Big Data Era, P. Cimiano, F. Frasincar, G.-J. Houben, and D. Schwabe,
Eds. Cham: Springer International Publishing, 2015, pp. 679-682.

[7] K. Padia, Y. AlNoamany, and M. C. Weigle, “Visualizing Digital
Collections at Archive-it,’ in Proceedings of the 12th ACM/IEEE-CS
Joint Conference on Digital Libraries, ser. JCDL ’12. ACM, 2012, pp.
15-18.

[8] W. Xu, M. Esteva, S. D. Jain, and V. Jain, “Analysis of large digital
collections with interactive visualization,” in 201] IEEE Conference on
Visual Analytics Science and Technology (VAST), October 2011, pp.
241-250.

[9] P. Bergstr6m and D. C. Atkinson, “Augmenting the exploration of digital
libraries with web-based visualizations,’ in 2009 Fourth International
Conference on Digital Information Management, November 2009, pp.
1-7.