Cc ’ For-Loop| *If-Condition) = = == ~~ | SEARCH

 

 

Equivalent loops

  

 

 

ae sete coupe
Bee fee
+ es int n=3;
*@ ted for (int i= ty i < my its) ( 1
TRUE, sone ee be ce
+ expr2evak x017 Is FALSE greene pecs
,
)
,

Conditionals ForLoop
c:ForLoop

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

(i

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

=
6

 

 

 

 

 

 

The C Programming|
Language

 

 

 

 

 

Fig. 4. Resources for a set of selected concepts

B. Resource Browsing

Several concepts can also be selected at the same time
by querying these concepts in the search field. The related
resources are then presented as in figure 4. In order to avoid
the inquiry paradox and support the user in the query, an
integration of our visualization tool into different e-learning
contexts is recommended, as discussed in section IV. As
both concepts share the same parent, there is only a single
ancestor tree. Learning material annotated with either one of
the concepts are categorized with respect to their media type,
e.g., PDF files or videos. For each resource, a preview image
is shown, together with its name and the set of annotated
concepts. The list can be horizontally scrolled.

Finally, once a resource has been selected, as in figure
5, it is centered on the screen, surrounded by the annotated
concepts. Concepts from another ontology (or module) than
the one currently explored are represented with a different
background color: here, the red circle represents the Short
circuit evaluation concept from the Programming
scheme of the ALMA ontology. This allows to see how a
document can be related to topics from different origins. For
instance, if two different ontologies or ontology schemes are
used in two subjects, this type of cross-curricular link of
documents across subjects may support learners, particularly
if they follow a global learning style, in understanding inter-
disciplinary connections and dependencies. On another note,
if related concepts have been annotated in other resources,
these are again represented by respective icons. For example,
this can be seen around the blue circle If Condition.
Hovering over such an icon again shows a preview image
of the corresponding document. This way, the implicit link
between learning resources on the same topic can be easily
grasped, both within the same subject and across subjects, due
to the formerly mentioned cross-curricular relations within the
learning material collection.

C. Coverage

To avoid that the teacher would have to browse through the
whole ontology in order to discover grey circles representing

Fig. 5. Selected resource with surrounding annotated concepts

 

 

voy
)

{ &
\ Sta
x

 

 

 

Fig. 6. Coverage view for teachers

non-covered concepts, a different visualization, particular for
teachers, can be used as shown in figure 6. Here, all the non-
covered concepts are in focus and shown at the same time. This
view 1s limited to discovering individual non-covered concepts,
and is not recommended to be used when no material at all
has been indexed for any concept in the ontology. Note that
the hierarchy of these concepts is still shown, but with less
opacity, to be able to locate their position within the ontology.
Clicking on some of the blue circles leads back to a situation
as shown in figure 2.

As we have seen, our tool combines the visualization of
an ontology with the exploration of related documents. Either
a concept or a resource can be focused on, with the related
resources respectively the annotated concepts around.

IV. INTEGRATION OPPORTUNITIES

As discussed in section III, concepts respectively resources
can be browsed through a visual navigation process. However,
it is still possible to query a concept directly by searching for
it, as shown in figure 4. In order to avoid both a lengthy visual
navigation on one hand and the inquiry paradox on the other
hand, our Web-based tool can be integrated into different e-
learning contexts.