Ontology Coverage Tool and Document Browser
for Learning Material Exploration

Christian Grévisse, Jeff Meder, Jean Botev and Steffen Rothkugel
Computer Science and Communications Research Unit
University of Luxembourg
6, Avenue de la Fonte L-4364 Esch-sur-Alzette, Luxembourg
Email: christian.grevisse@uni.lu, jeff.meder.001 @student.uni.lu, jean.botev@uni.lu, steffen.rothkugel @uni.lu

Abstract—Document collections in e-learning can cause issues
to both learners and teachers. On one hand, inquiry from the
vast corpus of available resources is non-trivial without adequate
formulation support and semantic information. Implicit links
between documents are hardly understood without a proper
visualization. On the other hand, it is difficult for teachers
to keep track of the topics covered by a large collection. In
this paper, we present an ontology coverage tool and document
browser for learning material exploration. Both learners and
teachers can benefit from a visualization of an ontology and the
documents related to the comprised concepts, overcoming the
limitations of traditional file explorers. Guiding users through
a visual query process, learners can quickly pinpoint relevant
learning material. The visualization, which has been implemented
as a web application using the D3.js JavaScript library, can
be integrated into different e-learning applications to further
enhance the workflow of learners. Finally, teachers are provided
an overview of topic coverage within the collection.

Index Terms—Document Collection Visualization; Learning
Material; Visual Query Support; Ontology Coverage; Document
Browser.

I. INTRODUCTION

The ever-growing amount of learning material can be an
issue for both learners and teachers. Students can become over-
whelmed by the vast corpus of available resources on a given
set of topics. In addition, Meno’s paradox of inquiry aggravates
the problem: If a learner does not know what he is looking
for, a successful search for relevant documents is unlikely.
Furthermore, a set of learning resources, like any other doc-
ument collection, can contain both explicit and implicit links
[1]. Explicit links between documents can be provided in the
form of cross-references or hyperlinks, whereas implicit links
are realized by documents covering the same set of topics. File
management on current operating systems is mostly based on
hierarchical file systems. Traditional file browsers are unable
to present to the user implicit links between documents [1].
Also, users need to remember file names and their location to
be able to retrieve them. If the precise content is unknown,
this is nearly impossible [2]. On the other hand, graph-based
hypermedia systems like the World Wide Web (WWW) excel
at handling explicit links, but require sophisticated search
engines to properly discover implicit links between a user
query and a document collection. However, formulating a
successful query is hampered both by the mentioned paradox
of inquiry and the ambiguity of natural language. Latter issue

can be overcome by annotating learning material with semantic
web technologies, such as ontologies. Even the use of concepts
from lightweight ontologies can lower the risk of ambiguity

[3].

From a teacher’s point of view, learning material provided in
a course ideally covers all the topics belonging to the learning
outcomes. Depending on the type of subject and study domain,
some aspects might be presented in the lecture, while other
topics are covered in a practical exercise session or a project.
In any case, the established list of concepts required to know
at the end of a course should all have been covered in one way
or another by the provided resources. However, depending on
the length of the course period, the complexity of a subject
or the granularity of a study domain, it may quickly become
difficult to keep track of the already covered and still to be
covered topics.

In this paper, we present an ontology coverage tool and
document browser for learning material exploration. Both
learners and teachers can benefit from a visualization of an
ontology and the documents related to the comprised concepts.
Implicit links between concepts or documents can be grasped
easier in such a visualization than in a traditional file system.
In addition, query formulation is fostered through a visual
browsing process. Integrating this visualization into different
e-learning contexts, such as programming environments, au-
thoring tools or serious games, can lower the risk of the inquiry
paradox. Learners are enabled to quickly pinpoint resources
relevant to their ad-hoc study necessities from the vast corpus,
which may reduce the information overload and improve their
work flow. Teachers, on the other hand, are given an overview
of which ontology concepts have already been covered by the
provided learning material and which still need to be covered.
Our approach has been implemented as a web application
using the D3.js JavaScript library.

The remainder of this paper is organized as follows: in
section II, we discuss related work from different research
dimensions. We present our tool in section HI. Various ways
of integrating the tool into different e-learning contexts are
discussed in section IV. We conclude in section V, providing
some ideas for future research.